2qb gate with cryoscope usecase (#150)
qua-platform/qua-libs: Quantum-Control-Applications/Superconducting/Multi Flux Tunable transmon/Use Case 1 - Two qubit gate optimization with cryoscope/readme.md

> # Two qubit chevron improved with cryoscope

Reviewer: Two qubit SWAP spectroscopy // this is the first part.

Now to say that it was improved with cryoscope is funny. What improved it was the digital filter.

Maybe: Two qubit SWAP spectroscopy improved with OPX digital filters

Author: Good point !

> *Demonstrated on the experiment of ??.*

Reviewer: we can delete this line, that is how I've been writing the other previous codes

Author: Why don't we say where the data was taken ?

Reviewer: The Quantware project is secret outside of QM

Author: hum I see

*Important note: the code in this folder is the exact code that was used for running this measurement*
*and it is tailored for a very specific setup and software environment. Thus, the code is here only for insipiration.*

The goal of this use-case is threefold:

> 1. to implement Cryoscope [[1](#1), [2](#2)] to measure the step response of the flux line

Reviewer: I think we can remove 'to' at the beginning, in 1. sounds that there two `to` close by and sounds funny. If you want to keep them you can use Capital letter `To`

> 2. to design suitable IIR and FIR filters to pre-distort flux pulses

Reviewer: I think it should say 'filter to distorted flux pulses' using pre-distort sounds like something was done to them but they are just by themselves distorted

Author: Actually this is the word used in the cryoscope paper, they talk about predistortion corrections

Author: But I'll rephrase it to make it clearer :)

> 3. to perform a two qubit chevron experiment without and with pre-distortion filters to characterize the corrections.

Reviewer: Perform two qubit SWAP spectroscopy

## 1. Experimental set-up and required calibrations

<img align="right" src="setup.PNG" alt="drawing" width="400"/>

### 1.1 Experimental set-up
The experimental setup consists of two flux tunable transmons (with a SQUID loop as nonlinear inductor and a flux line next to it) coupled to readout resonators located on a common transmission line.
The general scheme is represented on the figure on the right.

The qubits are controlled with IQ signals generated by the OPX and upconverted with an external local oscillator using calibrated IQ mixers.

The readout resonators are pumped with an intermediate frequency generated by the OPX and upconverted with another external local oscillator using an IQ mixer.

> The reflected signal is measured by the OPX after downconversion with an IQ mixer and the local oscillator signal.

Reviewer: The transmitted signal

The flux lines are controlled by two additional analog outputs of the OPX.

In principle, the program detailed below can be easily modified if a different set-up is to be used.

> ### 1.2 Calibration steps prior to the cryoscope and two-qubit chevron experiments

Reviewer: prior to Cryoscope and two-qubit SWAP spectroscopy

Before running Cryoscope, several calibration steps are required.

> * The first calibration to run is the 2D readout resonator spectroscopy (flux amplitude and frequency). This spectroscopy will show the resonator frequency as a function of flux biasing, the qubit flux insensitive point (qubit frequency independent of flux bias), the qubit zero-frequency point (where the flux bias is ...), and the avoided crossing when the qubit and resonator have the same frequency. For Cryoscope, we want to set the flux line to the qubit flux insensitive point and bias it around $\phi_0/4$ during the sequence.   

Reviewer: flux amplitude and *readout* frequency.

why three dots at the end of 'the flux bias is ... )

Author: Excellent question !
I'll fix it in the cryoscope usecase as well

> * The second important quantity to calibrate is the $\pi/2$ pulse. This can be done using a simple Rabi sequence where both the amplitude and frequency are scanned while the flux bias is set to the qubit flux insensitive point found previously.

Reviewer: is a little more accurate if we write 'where both the pulse amplitude and frequency are scanned...`

* (optional) If the qubit pulses are relatively short (< 100ns), then the use of optimal DRAG waveforms can enhance the fidelity of the gates [[3]](#3). 
* The last calibration to perform is the qubit detuning versus flux bias. This will be used to validate the qubit flux insensitive point and the avoided level crossing, as well as the cryoscope measurement. The sequence can be found in the [Cryoscope use-case](#2).

## 2. The configuration file

> ### 3.1 The elements

Reviewer: should be 2.1

The configuration consists of 3 elements:
* `qubit0` and `qubit1` send control pulses to each transmon

> * `resonator0` and `resonator1` send pump pulses and measures the reflected signal for each qubit

Reviewer: the transmission signal

* `flux_line0` and `flux_line1` send control pulses and DC voltage to the flux line of each qubit

> ### 3.2 The operations, pulse and waveforms

Reviewer: should be 2.2

> The qubits elements `qubit0` and `qubit1` have several operations defined that correspond to X/2, Y/2 and X gates.

Reviewer: maybe also list `X/2, Y/2, Y and X gates`

Author: Ok, but we don't actually use the Y gate here

> Since a $\pi$-pulse is 100ns long for `qubit1`, it uses a simple Gaussian envelop.

Reviewer: I used cosine waveforms

On the other hand, since a $\pi$-pulse is 16ns long for `qubit0`, an optimized DRAG waveform [[3]](#3) is used to generate its gates.

The `resonator` has just one readout operation defined as a constant amplitude pulse

The flux line elements `flux_line0` and `flux_line1` have a single biasing operation consisting of a square pulse added on top of a DC offset set to the flux soft spot.

## 3. The QUA program and data processing
The QUA program consists of three distinct parts:

> 1. Measuring the flux line step response by implementing cryoscope.

Reviewer: Measuring the distorted

Author: But we don't know if it is distorted a priori, no?

Reviewer: true indeed you win

> 2. From this step response, derive the IIR and FIR filters to pre-distort the flux pulse.

Reviewer: to compensate for the distorted flux pulse

> 3. Characterize the corrections by implementing a two qubit chevron experiment between |11> and |02> (CZ gate).

Reviewer: a two qubit SWAP spectroscopy form which the CZ gate can be defined

### 3.1 [Cryoscope](cryoscope.py)

 The idea of the method is to measure the step response of the flux line using the qubit phase measured in a Ramsey-like experiment [[1]](#1). 
 The possibly distorted response can then be pre-corrected by designing suitable IIR and FIR filters.

This experiment and implementation in QUA has already been documented in the following [use-case](#2).
The main difference here is that a constant amplitude flux pulse has been used to measure the step response of the flux line.

### 3.2 [IIR and FIR filter implementation](cryoscope.py)

The method used to design the filters is to fit the flux step response with one or several exponential decay functions 

> and use analytical laws to derive the corresponding FIR and IIR taps. 

Reviewer: analytical formulas or functions? laws sounds like gravity

Author: Where do they come from by the way? Tomer?

Reviewer: Tomer derive them but it comes from some math that Uri taught Tomer or pointed Tomer to

Reviewer: It is kind of the class from university where you learn digital filters if you are ELE

Author: Ok cool :)

An example is shown on the snippet below 
and more details about the implementation of FIR and IIR filters in QUA can be found [here](https://qm-docs.qualang.io/guides/output_filter#id1).
```python
"controllers": {
    "con1": {
        "analog_outputs": {
            1: {"offset": -0.0102 * 1}, # q0 I
            2: {"offset": 0.0316 * 1},  # q0 Q
            3: {"offset": 0.0},  # q1 I
            4: {"offset": 0.0},  # q1 Q
            5: {"offset": 0.0},  # resonators I
            6: {"offset": 0.0},  # resonators Q
            7: {"offset": offset7, "filter": {"feedforward": fir, "feedback": iir}},   # qo flux line
            8: {"offset": offset8, "filter": {"feedforward": fir1, "feedback": iir1}}, # q1 flux line
        },
    },
},
```
The figure below shows the results of the filter implementation.

The top-left figure represents the step response of the flux line and the crorresponding exponential fit.
The top-right figure represents the filters correction as well as the calculated taps.
The bottom-left plot is the normalized flux pulse without and with filter and the bottom-right figure is a zoom with the $\pm$ 1% region.

![results](Pulse_response.png)

> ### 3.3 [Two qubit chevron |11> - |02> (CZ gate) ](CZ02_11.py)

Reviewer: Two qubit SWAP spectroscopy

> In order to characterize the quality of the corrections, a two qubit chevron experiment is implemented.

Reviewer: two qubit SWAP spectroscopy

            # global align
            align()
            # Wait some additional time to be sure that the pulses don't overlap
            wait(20)
            # q0 state readout
            measure(
                "readout",
                "resonator0",
                None,
                dual_demod.full("rotated_cos", "out1", "rotated_sin", "out2", I),
                dual_demod.full("rotated_minus_sin", "out1", "rotated_cos", "out2", Q),
            )
            save(I, I_st)
            save(Q, Q_st)
            # State discrimination
            assign(state, I > ge_threshold)
            save(state, state_st)
```
The state of qubit 0 is displayed below as a function of the flux pulse amplitude and duration without and with filters.

|   Chevron without filter    |      Chevron with filters       |
|:---------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
| ![results](CZ_nofilter.png) | ![results](CZ_with_filter.png)  |

As explained in [[1]](#1), the finite rise time of the flux pulse without filter is responsible for the bending of the fringes toward larger amplitudes for short pulses and the assymetric pattern visible on the left picture.

> The absence of these two features on the right picture shows the validity of the filter implementation based on cryoscope.

Reviewer: based on Cryoscope

### 1.1 Experimental set-up
The chip contains 5 2D-transmons, where some of them have nearest-neighboor connectivity, 
with flux tunable lines.

The experimental setup specific to this experiment consists of two flux tunable transmons (with a SQUID loop as nonlinear inductor and a flux line next to it) coupled to readout resonators located on a common transmission line.
The general scheme is represented on the figure on the right.

The qubits are controlled with IQ signals generated by the OPX and upconverted with an external local oscillator using calibrated IQ mixers.

The readout resonators are pumped with an intermediate frequency generated by the OPX and upconverted with another external local oscillator using an IQ mixer.
The transmitted signal is measured by the OPX after downconversion with an IQ mixer and the local oscillator signal.

The flux lines are controlled by two additional analog outputs of the OPX.

In principle, the program detailed below can be easily modified if a different set-up is to be used.

### 1.2 Calibration steps prior to Cryoscope and two-qubit SWAP spectroscopy

Before running Cryoscope, several calibration steps are required.

> * The first calibration to run is the 2D readout resonator spectroscopy (flux amplitude and readout frequency). This spectroscopy will show the resonator frequency as a function of flux biasing, the qubit flux insensitive point (qubit frequency independent of flux bias), the qubit zero-frequency point, and the avoided crossing when the qubit and resonator have the same frequency. For Cryoscope, we want to set the flux line to the qubit flux insensitive point and bias it around $\phi_0/4$ during the sequence.   

Reviewer 2: Do we have a nice figure showing this 2D scan? It would be nice, with an indicaiation of the features

Author: I don't, maybe @KevinAVR has one ?

Reviewer: I don't have either and the system is not in our hand anymore -- next time

```python
import scipy.optimize
from filter_functions import expdecay, filter_calc
## Fit step response with exponential
[A_exp, tau_exp], _ = scipy.optimize.curve_fit(expdecay, xplot, step_response)
print(f"A: {A_exp}\ntau: {tau_exp}")

## Derive IIR and FIR corrections
fir, iir = filter_calc(exponential=[(A, tau)])
print(f"FIR: {fir}\nIIR: {iir}")
```
Once the filter parameters have been found, the configuration needs to be updated accordingly.
An example is shown on the snippet below 
and more details about the implementation of FIR and IIR filters in QUA can be found [here](https://qm-docs.qualang.io/guides/output_filter#id1).
```python
"controllers": {
    "con1": {
        "analog_outputs": {
            1: {"offset": -0.0102 * 1}, # q0 I
            2: {"offset": 0.0316 * 1},  # q0 Q
            3: {"offset": 0.0},  # q1 I
            4: {"offset": 0.0},  # q1 Q
            5: {"offset": 0.0},  # resonators I
            6: {"offset": 0.0},  # resonators Q
            7: {"offset": offset7, "filter": {"feedforward": fir, "feedback": iir}},   # qo flux line

>             8: {"offset": offset8, "filter": {"feedforward": fir1, "feedback": iir1}}, # q1 flux line

Reviewer 2: I would rename to `fir0` and `iir0` to be consistent with the rest

        },
    },
},
```
The figure below shows the results of the filter implementation.

> The top-left figure represents the step response of the flux line and the crorresponding exponential fit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The top-left figure shows the step response of the flux line and the corresponding exponential fit.

```

> The top-right figure represents the filters correction as well as the calculated taps.

Reviewer 2: The top right is confusing because it contains both experimental data and the scipy data. It is not clear that the red curve is scipy. I would suggest one of the two:
1. Remove the experimental data and indicate that this is all calculations
2. OR: "The top-right figure shows the experimental data in blue, the fitted curve in orange, the ideal pulse in XXX, and the calculated response with the filters in red"

Author: I lean toward the second option

The bottom-left plot is the normalized flux pulse without and with filter and the bottom-right figure is a zoom with the $\pm$ 1% region.

![results](Pulse_response.png)

### 3.3 [Two qubit SWAP spectroscopy](CZ02_11.py)

In order to characterize the quality of the corrections, a two qubit SWAP spectroscopy is implemented.
It consists of four steps:

> 1. Prepare the qubits in the ground state. For simplicity, this is done by waiting a cooldown time equivalent to 5*T1, but an active reset protocol can also be used to gain in efficiency.

Reviewer 2: Why are we not doing it? It would definitely look better...

Author: I think it was for simplicity since Kevin had only small time windows to work on this...
